# ISA Assembler & Simulator


## ISA Assembler

### Overview

The ISA (Instruction Set Architecture) Assembler is a Python program designed to convert assembly code written in the specified ISA assembly language into machine code. The assembler supports various instructions, labels, and variables, and it performs comprehensive error checking to ensure the correctness of the input code.

### Features

- **Instruction Support:** Handle all supported instructions specified in the ISA.
- **Label Handling:** Recognize and process labels, marking locations in the code.
- **Variable Support:** Declare and use 16-bit variables at the beginning of the assembly program.
- **Error Handling:** Detect and report syntax errors for various illegal instructions or usages.
- **Binary Code Generation:** If the input code is error-free, generate a binary file containing the corresponding machine code.


## ISA Simulator

### Overview

The ISA Simulator is designed to execute machine code generated by the ISA Assembler. It loads the binary file into system memory, executes the instructions, and provides real-time output of the program counter, register values, and a memory dump.

### Input-Output Format

- The assembly code should be written in the "input.txt" file.
- Assembler output is visible in "assembler-output.txt".
- Simulator output is visible in "simulator-output.txt".

### How to Run

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Aaryakhandelwal/Assembler-Combined-Simulator.git
    ```

2. Run the Assembler:

    ```bash
    python3 SimpleAssembler.py
    ```

3. Run the Simulator:

    ```bash
    python3 SimpleSimulator.py
    ```

4. View the output files as needed.


